Hello. I'm Freddie Highmore.
The following episode
portrays our hope for the future,
a future where no one
will have to wear masks
or take other steps
to stay safe from COVID.
Until then,
please protect yourself and others.
I'm Jordan Allen.
My first year in med school,
I designed an ankle brace
that monitors extent of immobilization
via a phone app.
When I licensed it to Bioventus,
I was able to pay off
over half my student loans.
John Lundberg.
I've worked every summer
since I was 16 at Camp Hope Heartland,
a summer program for kids
with cancer in Des Moines,
where I grew up.
Asher Wolke.
Uh, when I was 18,
I left the Hasidic community
that I was raised in.
I realized if there really was a God,
it had to be a cruel being
that I felt nothing but contempt for.
That's also when I decided
to go to med school,
and start dating men.
I'm Olivia Jackson. I'm 25. From Chicago.
[inhales deeply]
I play ragtime piano
alone in my apartment.
Is that interesting?
Will Hooper.
Technically, I'm a professional athlete.
Although in a sport
nobody pays attention to,
and the stipend barely covers
our training expenses,
but I'm on the US National Rowing team.
Men's Eight.
Hey, I'm Enrique.
I spent last summer in Costa Rica,
where I learned to surf, which I'm totally
obsessed with now. [chuckles]
Uh, I had a pretty interesting encounter
with a saltwater crocodile.
I just thought it was a big…
Why are you wearing a swimsuit?
Oh, they're actually hybrid boardshorts.
I like to work hard,
and it's easier to do
when you're comfortable.
Plus, I think the casual dress
puts patients at ease.
[chuckles lightly]
Uh…
And Dr. Lim said that the
shorts were fine.
Hospital policy requires all residents to…
He's not a resident.
He's a resident applicant.
One of six finalists for four openings.
Now, they'll be shadowing for two days.
Give them the tour,
show them the ropes,
feel free to turn up the heat.
See how they react under pressure.
You will be responsible
for supervising them,
so I want your totally honest input
before I make any final decisions.
Those shorts…
Let's call them strike one.
Oh, and in addition
to being an Olympian,
Will Hooper is a Rhodes
and graduated top of his class
at Stanford.
He is very handsome.
He's very full of himself.
He's ranked first by every top program,
so whatever you can do
to recruit him to ours, do it.
I can already give you
my input on the sh…
Don't judge a book by its boardshorts.
-[knock on door]
-[door opens]
[Dr. Reznick] You wanted to see me?
Good morning.
Sorry. Good morning.
-[door closes]
-What'd I do wrong?
Just wanted to check in.
See how the new role was coming along.
Honestly?
You could start our new
supervisor-resident relationship
with a lie.
That's always fun.
Internal medicine is
boring.
Between smokers and obese diabetics,
seems like all I'm doing
is protecting people from themselves.
[chuckles]
As a surgical resident,
you never treated drunk drivers?
Or extracted random objects from guys'…
I get it. People are stupid.
Not my point, but true.
[sighs]
Not the same adrenaline rush,
but internal medicine can be rewarding.
Given time, if you're patient.
Thanks.
That is not how I thought
this meeting was gonna go.
I thought one of the nurses
complained about me.
Wasn't just one.
And if it happens again, this meeting
will go exactly how you thought it would.
[door closes]
Sorry.
I should've just canceled the appointment.
You were right.
Dizziness went away as soon as I stopped
drinking coffee and Red Bull all day.
No worries.
-Can you lie flat on your back, please?
-Yeah.
You get that scar in a fire?
Sort of.
A homemade Roman candle when I was 12.
[chuckles] You'd be surprised
how many of us at the firehouse
were pyros as kids.
I made a potato gun
for my sixth-grade science fair.
Almost got me kicked out of school.
You'll have to come visit us sometime.
[inhales sharply] You'd fit right in.
[Josh] You see something?
Don't talk. Just breathe normally.
[machine beeps]
You have a large tumor
on the wall of your heart.
Cancer?
I don't know.
But you're definitely gonna need surgery.
As soon as possible.
[theme music playing]
I appreciate you letting me
share your case with the whole class.
[Monica] No problem.
I stopped being shy
after the 100th time I had to do this.
I'll be using a version
of Lejour's technique I've adapted.
We'll divide the breast
into three pedicles,
and then redistribute the tissue
and insert saline implants
to correct the tuberous breast deformity.
Why would you want breast implants?
You're beautiful. And your breasts look
fine just the way they are.
No. No, they don't.
The base is constricted,
horizontal development is deficient,
and the nipple-areola complex…
-Murphy.
-It's okay. He's right.
That's why I'm here.
Thank you.
I know that you're trying to be nice.
My friends and family
have been telling me for years,
"You're beautiful just the way you are."
But I don't feel beautiful.
You're 17.
Every girl your age feels like that.
That can't be true.
Tuberous breast deformity
is a rare condition.
We're not going to debate
a personal decision
the patient's already made.
I've been thinking
about this since I was 13.
Every time I look in the mirror.
I'm about to start college,
and there is no way
that I'm gonna begin this new chapter
until I'm fixed.
[Dr. Andrews] Great.
You thinking median sternotomy
or right thoracotomy?
I'm thinking I should finish
my review of the imaging.
Sure. No rush.
Actually, there is a bit of a rush.
But you know what I mean.
So, newbies. What up? Where y'all from?
Like hometowns, or…
Med schools. Why would I care
where you grew up?
Stanford.
-Uh, NYU.
-Harvard.
Preferred specialties?
Ortho. All the way.
Neuro.
I'm planning a dual specialty
in neonatal and pediatric oncology.
Impressive. Also unlikely.
I know, it's a ton of work,
but I'm pretty good at multi-tasking.
In med school, I did
a combined MD/PhD…
-What's your mom do?
-My mom?
Don't stall. Just answer.
She teaches high-school French.
Homemaker.
Surgeon.
Ouch. Dad?
Also a surgeon.
Double ouch. And yours?
Hasidic rabbi.
You've left the nest.
Actually, the… the whole forest.
And yours obviously
works on Wall Street.
But not a trader.
I'm guessing… an M&A lawyer?
How'd you know?
She's read your resume,
researched your social media.
She's probably run a credit check, too.
And you're under 50, but wear
Brooks Brothers button-downs.
-[monitor beeps]
-Are you done yet?
Left thoracotomy
with a possible incision
into the right atrium
and inter-atrial septum as needed.
Left atrial approach through
Sondergaard's groove makes more sense.
Not to me.
He's my patient.
But you're not a surgeon.
Which is why there is
no reason for you to be grilling them,
or picking the approach.
Stop worrying about protecting your turf.
Stop stepping all over it.
You're looking at tests
I did for my patient.
How am I stepping all over your turf?
I think what Dr. Browne
is trying to say is,
given there's no perfect approach,
maybe it's best to defer
to the surgical department's
recommendation.
Did he just mansplain?
Not at all. I…
I was just trying…
So you're gonna do it again?
No, I'm just trying…
[both] Shut up.
We're gonna go in
through a left thoracotomy.
Not my preference,
but it'll work.
What were you thinking?
You thought you'd impress me
by undermining the patient's
confidence in my judgment?
I'm sorry. That wasn't my intent.
And you're supposed to be a mentor now,
modeling professional behavior,
not making it worse, Murphy.
She questioned your surgical plan.
I defended it.
How can we both be wrong?
I don't need you to defend me.
And I never wanna have a surgical debate
in front of a patient.
We're not in front of the patient now.
The patient's breasts
are small and a bit asymmetrical,
but no woman's breasts
are perfectly shaped.
You're wearing Prada shoes
and a Dolce & Gabbana blouse,
which cost more
than most med students' rent,
so, clearly, you understand
your appearance has a tremendous impact
on how people treat you.
There's a difference
between nice clothes and a major surgery.
And I also understand
the cosmetic surgery industry
is dominated
by male physicians with a sexist bias.
I've invited you to observe
as a learning opportunity.
So I'd suggest less lecturing
and more listening.
We'll access the tumor via an incision
in the chest wall between your ribs.
It'll be an easier recovery
than if we opened your sternum.
Are you sure
you don't want us to call your family
before we put you under?
Why? So they can
freak out and worry?
I'd rather just give them
the good news when it's over.
It is going to be good news, right?
With a bit of cardiac rehab
and a positive attitude,
which I know you have,
you'll be back sliding
down the fire pole in no time.
Our firehouse has stairs.
Hmm. Bummer.
[Lea] It's a social media group
where we all pretend to be ants.
[Shaun] Why?
Because ants don't care about politics,
sports teams,
or anything else people
get so savage about.
Male ants develop from unfertilized eggs,
which means they don't have a father
and can't have sons.
But they do have grandfathers
and can have grandsons.
Interesting.
And confusing.
Is it just me,
or are those doctors watching us?
They're the new resident applicants.
They're here so Park, Claire, and I
can evaluate them for Dr. Lim.
So, why are they standing over there?
Park had a video chat with Kellan,
and I had a real lunch with you.
Shaun, you can't just
have them stand there while you eat.
Part of being a good boss
is being a good host.
You need to introduce them to people.
Like me. Right now.
Come here, please.
Dr. Allen, Dr. Lundberg, Dr. Guerin,
this is my girlfriend, Lea.
She runs the IT department now.
Okay.
Nice to meet you all. Please join us.
Shaun's been telling me all about you.
Mm. N… No. I haven't.
So, I hope Shaun's
not being too hard on you.
No, he's been great.
And the case we're observing
is really interesting.
We're correcting
a 17-year-old girl's tuberous breasts
with saline implants.
Dr. Allen told Dr. Andrews
it was unethical.
He got mad.
I didn't say it was unethical. I just…
I suppose shouldn't have interfered.
Well, I don't know
what a tuberous breast is,
but I think implants are way overrated.
That's because your breasts are excellent.
Thank you.
That's exactly my point.
Mine aren't huge,
but every guy who's ever seen them
up close and personal
has been thrilled.
I definitely was.
I am thrilled by every part of your body.
Sorry. My bad. Total TMI.
I'm not even bothered
by your adenoidal voice.
Except when you talk
to your mom on the phone.
But I just put on headphones.
At least you'll know
he'll be a totally honest boss.
[monitor beeping]
[Dr. Reznick on speaker]
The incision's extended superiorly
to meet the atriotomy, and then
the inter-atrial septum is opened up.
Retractor.
A Carpentier retractor
is used to visualize the mitral valve.
That will allow clear view of the tumor.
Can we turn the channel?
Color commentary's getting a bit annoying.
[Dr. Reznick]
With the right atrium opened obliq…
[sighs]
How's Team Browne? Any early standouts?
Jackson's a bit timid, but smart.
Wolke is definitely enthusiastic.
And your star recruit is…
[inhales deeply]
pretty full of himself.
I'm looking for surgeons,
and according to his recs,
he can dissect and suture like a pro.
I thought you were also
looking for our input.
He's ranked first by every top program.
You really think
they're all wrong and you're right?
So, what brings you all to the biz?
Had my ACL reconstructed in high school,
both my rotators in college.
I love the idea of fixing people,
helping them be the best they can be.
Surgeons are the ones
with the God complex, right?
I have that.
I spent my life speaking Yiddish
and studying the Talmud,
and not shaving
the sides of my hair,
because someone up there supposedly cares.
Uh, but then I realized
no one's up there.
No one cares.
No benevolent higher power
is going to save us, so…
[inhales deeply]
We have to save each other.
Can you top that?
-Definitely not.
-Try anyway.
You're obviously smart.
You've got two degrees from Harvard.
My parents are Harvard alums, so…
I'm sure that helped me get in.
You're not gonna get hired
by undermining your own…
Something went wrong.
[Olivia] Looks like
they nicked a pulmonary artery.
No. If they had,
Browne would be suctioning
instead of Lim reaching in with her hands.
[Asher] What are they doing now?
Nothing.
We can't access the tumor
without compromising
his entire cardiac outflow tract.
What about going in the way I suggested?
The median sternotomy.
The tumor's too far back.
We need to close him up.
Proton beam radiation
would be too toxic to the heart.
[Dr. Lim] So is immunotherapy.
We can't access
the entire tumor surgically,
and we can't kill it
without killing his heart along with it.
What if we cut out
the parts we can access
and try our luck
with chemo on what's left?
IV doxorubicin and ifosfamide
might slow the growth,
give him a few more months.
I'm not sending my patient home
with just a few extra months.
It's better than nothing.
What about a transplant?
Not an option.
Heart tumors are a contraindication.
What if we transplant his own heart?
If we take it totally out of his chest,
we'd have access to the posterior heart.
We could excise the tumor,
fix the defect it left,
-and then put it back in.
-Cool.
[Claire] Mm. Not cool.
At least with a normal heart transplant,
you'd be getting a healthy heart.
Her idea keeps the risk
of removing the heart,
and adds the risk
that the heart we'd be putting back in
has just been severely compromised
having had a tumor cut out of it.
He's young, and the part of his heart
not infiltrated with tumor is strong.
Do a cardiac MRA and see if the tumor's
infiltrated the coronary arteries.
If it hasn't, Morgan's idea could work.
I'll schedule it.
[Dr. Andrews] Dr. Murphy is dividing
the breast parenchyma
into three pedicles.
Anyone know where this technique
is derived from?
Breast reduction surgery.
That's right.
And why would I use
a breast reduction technique
to make the patient's breasts larger?
The technique frees up the tissue.
You can bring the pedicles together
to make the breasts smaller
or spread them out
over an implant to make them larger.
[Dr. Andrews] Very good.
And now I'm going to turn the sound off.
Don't worry. Nothing's wrong.
I just wanna talk about you
behind your backs for a little bit.
So, first impressions.
Murphy?
I like Dr. John Lundberg.
[Dr. Andrews] I haven't even
heard him speak yet.
He has the highest U.S.M.L.E. scores.
And that's important to you?
[softly] Yes.
It shows he has
a broad knowledge of medicine.
What is important to you?
Well, I'm more interested
in what they can do with their knowledge,
which is why, so far,
I'm most impressed with Jordan Allen.
No. No, you said she undermined you.
Which takes courage and an assertiveness
that will serve her well.
Then why did you tell her
to stop lecturing you?
It's easier to teach
an aggressive resident restraint
than a passive one
to assert themselves.
[Shaun] Oh.
What about you, Park?
What's important to you?
I wanna know who I can
stand to be around for 80 hours a week.
One thing I learned as a cop,
you don't really know a person
until you've had a few drinks with them.
[machine whirring]
[Dr. Reznick] LAD and circumflex
look clean.
[Claire] What's with the right coronary?
It looks narrowed at the origin.
It's a bit narrow,
but looks like a normal variant.
Yeah, but it seems hazy,
like there could be
some tumor infiltration.
What do you guys think?
-Us?
-Yeah.
Come take
a look.
I guess…
-It's angiogenesis of the left…
-Stop.
Interrupting a female coworker
is almost as annoying as mansplaining.
This isn't a rowing race.
You don't always have to speak first.
I… do not love the interruption.
But…
I like the enthusiasm.
What were you gonna say?
First, um, I'm not sexist.
Of course not.
He's shifting from right to left
dominant circulation
to feed blood to the tumor.
-Angiogenesis.
-I doubt it.
Surgery showed his tumor
extending to the right side, as well.
What were you gonna say?
The pulmonary artery is
right behind that vessel.
It's causing radiographic scatter
in this area.
The haze is just an artifact.
His arteries are clean.
I think she's right.
Hmm.
Your idea might just work.
[Dr. Andrews] If you invert the sutures
and bury them under the skin,
the scar will be invisible.
No one will ever know we were here.
Nice work, both of you.
-[monitor beeping]
-Her BP's dropping.
Push fluids, start IV pressors.
Check for bleeding.
-[rapid beeping]
-She's in V-tach. Move in the crash cart.
No bleeding. No hematomas.
-[Shaun] Charging.
-[defibrillator powers up]
[Shaun] Clear.
[defibrillator thumps]
[rapid beeping continues]
[beeping slows]
Sinus rhythm. Her BP is stabilizing.
[monitor beeping regularly]
Get her to the ICU.
I want post-op labs, CTA chest,
and full 24-hour cardiac telemetry.
We need to figure out
what just happened.
[monitor beeping]
She's stable,
but diffuse delta wave slowing.
Minimal brain activity.
An undiagnosed metabolic disorder
could've caused
an adverse reaction to the anesthesia.
Yeah, but her pre-op labs
were all normal.
It's gotta be
some sort of hidden heart condition.
You're big on opinions.
How are you with ideas?
What would you do next?
I'd check train of fours
and reverse the paralytics
with neostigmine.
If Dr. Murphy's right,
she should wake up.
Smart. But risky.
The meds will stress her heart.
If Park's right, she could arrest again.
I saw a similar case last year. In Borneo.
You interned at a hospital in Borneo?
Uh, no. I, uh, volunteered
at an orangutan rescue foundation.
Our guide, a local villager,
fell out of a tree.
He was, like, 80 feet up.
How is falling out of a tree
similar to a patient arresting
during breast reconstruction surgery?
Well, he broke his back,
uh, but when we got him
to the hospital,
I found he also had heart damage
from rheumatic fever
and metabolic abnormality
from iodine deficiency.
It's rare here, but it's common there.
We only realized it
when we ran a nuclear profusion scan
of his entire body.
Good catch.
But a scan that extensive
requires multiple radioactive tracers.
You think her heart could handle that?
Not tonight.
I'll get consent from the mom.
We'll do it first thing in the morning.
Once we confirm atrial closure,
we'll put the heart back in.
Dr. Lim will reconnect the aorta
and the superior venous connections,
while I connect the inferior.
During my sub-internship,
I assisted on multiple heart transplants.
Even sutured the atrial cuff in one.
I got to scrub in
on a liver transplant once.
The… The patient died.
What'd you learn?
That bile duct leaks
are a lot harder to detect than bleeds.
Good. Next time, I'd lead with that
instead of the patient's death.
Are you all done yet?
Why?
Dr. Park wants everyone
to join him in the break room.
[upbeat music playing on stereo]
I'm Alex Park.
I'm a former amateur
martial arts competitor
who once thought
it'd be fun to spar with a pro boxer
visiting my dad's gym.
And that guy was, uh, Mike Tyson.
Who's Mike Tyson?
He's a guy from The Hangover.
With the tiger and the tattoo on his face.
Nice. You've just revealed
you're crazy and old.
I've seen the musical Wicked
over 50 times.
The San Francisco tryout,
Broadway, Chicago.
I've even seen a friend's boyfriend's
niece play Glinda
at Stagedoor summer camp.
Nerd. Next.
[clears throat] I'm Claire Browne.
Um, I love music,
but I hate musicals, and, um, I don't…
I don't really like to talk about myself,
so it's Shaun's turn.
My name is Dr. Shaun Murphy.
I used to not like music,
but my girlfriend, Lea,
she changed my mind.
I also like to watch
The Weather Channel on TV.
And…
[shudders]
I think pickles are disgusting.
[laughter]
Cops know how to manage up.
Managing down's another story.
Well, he's mature, thoughtful,
doesn't have an ego.
Neither does Murphy,
but do you think that qualifies him
to supervise First Years?
Well, Murphy's smart,
brutally honest,
has no regard for social convention.
[chuckles] Mm.
It works for Bill Belichick.
The Patriots are the most corrupt,
dishonest organization
in the history of the NFL.
Well, the Seahawks suck.
So, how's your experience been here?
It's been good.
Did you consider any other programs
or was this your first choice?
This was my only choice.
Why do you hate God?
Oh. Uh, actually,
I don't believe there is a God.
I thought maybe it was because
you believed he hated homosexuals.
-[chuckles]
-I… I don't think this is something
that we should be discussing at work.
Why not?
Well, because it's personal.
Do you have a boyfriend?
I… I'm sorry, but you can't ask
that question in a workplace.
Dr. Park, he wants us to get to know you.
How can I do that
without asking personal questions?
I have a girlfriend,
and she is very important to me.
It affects my life in every way.
Probably should've thought of that
before you told her
how much her voice annoyed you.
I said it didn't bother me.
It… It was a compliment.
What I heard is you criticizing her voice,
and you bringing her mother into it.
You're in trouble.
What about Browne?
She may have as much problem
being a leader as Murphy,
and without his gifts.
She has her own gifts.
Yeah, dealing with patients
and their families.
But with her colleagues,
she can be insecure.
Her assertiveness has always
been a question mark for me.
They've all got areas that need improving,
but I've gotten to know Browne
a bit better these past few months.
She's stronger than she looks.
When's the last time you saw anyone
digging a ditch in a suit and tie?
Surgeons don't dig ditches.
They help people
at the most vulnerable time in their life.
And you shouldn't take
the responsibility on
if you're not fully committed to it.
You're entering
a new phase in your career,
position of authority.
Maybe my clothes
are making you feel disrespected.
No.
The truth is,
I just hate wearing anything
that makes me feel like
a suit.
[Dr. Reznick] Great news.
I was able to get Sowinski
on anesthesia for tomorrow.
Uh, why? What happened to Foley?
Nothing, I just think Sowinski's better.
And we definitely need
the A-team on this.
Yeah, I… I agree.
Which is why I went
out of my way to get Foley.
But Foley doesn't do well under pressure.
-Remember that time…
-Morgan.
You need to butt out. You're not
a surgeon. This is not your job.
My job is to help my patient
through the entire treatment process.
The best anesthesiologist
for transplant surgery is Sowinski.
And I've already cleared it with Lim,
so that's who it's gonna be.
Deal with it.
[door opens, closes]
Are you mad at me?
I said your voice doesn't bother me.
It was a compliment.
Actually, what you said
is that you love my breasts so much
that with the help of
noise-canceling headphones,
you're willing to put up
with my annoying voice.
Yes.
Not a compliment.
Oh.
So you are mad at me?
I'm not mad, Shaun. I'm just busy,
trying to keep, like, a billion bots
and hackers out of our network.
[mouse clicking]
Actually, no. I'm not doing that.
Gonna go home.
You want to have some tequila, stat?
We also have some pizza left.
No, I don't want tequila or pizza.
-[laptop slams shut]
-That must mean you're mad.
I'm just… upset.
And confused.
And I really don't think
there is anything you can do about it,
so you just need to stop trying
and leave me alone.
[Shaun] She's not mad at me.
[Jordan] She's definitely mad at you.
She doesn't usually
hide what she thinks.
[Enrique] She's not mad at him.
She knows how he is, how he talks.
She's mad at herself. And scared.
We all have stuff
that we're insecure about.
That's why it's so risky falling in love.
We all hope that
when we let our guard down,
it's for the one person
that doesn't see our flaws.
So, what do I do?
You were being honest.
You can't apologize that away.
You gotta figure out what she needs
to feel secure in the relationship again.
Don't look at me. I'm single.
It's not my place
to comment on your personal life.
You have an opinion. Let's hear it.
Fine.
Can you zoom in on her skull base?
[Dr. Park] I can, but why?
We're worried about her heart
and metabolic abnormalities.
We shouldn't be. Not anymore.
You and Dr. Murphy were both wrong.
She doesn't have
a cardiac or metabolic issue.
She has poor blood flow
in the artery supplying blood
to the area of her brain
that controls consciousness.
A small clot in her artery of Percheron.
If we don't remove it fast,
she's never going to wake up.
[monitor beeping]
[softly] That's amazing.
No, it's not.
The heart's totally outside of the body
and still beating.
It's like it has a mind of its own.
She should've started
the reimplantation by now.
Is everything okay, Dr. Lim?
[Dr. Lim] The tumor had tendrils
invading the right atrial wall.
We took so much tissue
to get a clear margin,
there's not enough left to reconstruct
his heart's inflow chambers.
How about expanded PTFE graft?
There's not enough atrial remnant
to attach the graft.
-Use the septal wall.
-He's got dense conduction fibers there.
-It could cause heart arrhythmias.
-Not if you use…
-[rapid beeping]
-He's got low arterial pressure.
He's springing leaks
at the cannulation sites.
It's a bleeding disorder
caused by prolonged bypass.
You need to get his heart back in ASAP.
Morgan, we can't put the heart back in
with two missing chambers.
[Dr. Andrews distorted]
It's a rare complication,
but a blood clot is a risk in any surgery.
[Dr. Park] It's too deep in the brain
for open surgery.
If we go rooting around in there,
we'd definitely damage
the PCA and kill her.
We could inject
a dissolving agent into the clot.
There's a 50% probability
it won't fully dissolve,
which could leave her with permanent
weakness and cognitive difficulties.
[Jordan] Assuming she wakes up at all.
We need to remove the clot
with a stent retriever.
If we rupture
the posterior cerebral artery,
she'll die on the table.
Or total recovery.
That's how she came into this hospital.
That's how she's leaving.
Prep her for stent retrieval.
[monitor beeping]
I'm hanging platelets
and fresh frozen plasma.
His pressure is still in the toilet,
but the bleeding is slowing down.
Not for long.
Small intestine submucosa
has the right compliance
to shape the chamber walls, but…
There isn't enough
to cover that much area.
Use too little
and he'll have heart failure in a month.
I know. That's the "but."
How thick is his deep fascia?
-If it's over 2 millimeters…
-[Dr. Lim] Morgan.
Get out.
I'm sorry. I'll… I'll be quiet.
No, you won't. You can't.
So leave the OR gallery.
Now.
We need 2.6-millimeter-thick tissue
with perfect compliance
for arterial filling
and contractile pressures.
If it was just the valve,
we'd use a bovine pericardial graft.
But cow heart tissue is not durable enough
to do an entire chamber.
But pig bladder tissue is just right.
I've used it for bladder reconstructive
surgeries, but never hearts.
Let's rebuild
the entire atrial walls with it.
Get down to the tissue procurement lab
and get 200 centimeters
of porcine bladder tissue.
[monitor beeping]
Her EEG delta waves
are slowing further.
[Dr. Andrews] She only has one vessel
feeding her thalamus.
That's why the clot landed where it did.
I'm approaching the artery of Percheron.
I'm one millimeter from the clot.
Stop right there.
If we disrupt this clot, we could cause
a shower of emboli into her brain.
Deploying the retriever.
[monitor beeping rapidly]
EEG just went flatline.
Calm down. I'm almost…
Got it.
Blood's flowing through the artery.
Her brain tracing's looking better.
[monitor beeping regularly]
This should fill the gap between
the inferior and superior vena cava
when the new chambers get sewn in.
Where's that graft?
I need more sponges.
The bleeding is getting worse.
-[rapid beeping]
-Oh, he's tanking.
-Can you push epi?
-I already did. He's maxing out.
I'm running out of ways
to keep his pressure up.
I got it.
They had 205 centimeters of it.
Thank you.
If you want to gown up,
you can watch from down here.
Definitely. Thanks.
I thought telling her how much I love her
in front of other people
would make her feel good.
But Dr. Guerin said
I made her feel insecure, and scared.
Women are sensitive.
When commenting on their flaws,
total honesty is a high-risk procedure.
That sounds sexist.
Aren't men also insecure
about their flaws?
Men are much, much worse.
And also, we're really stupid.
Okay.
What can I do now?
I've already said my stupid stuff.
I don't want her to be upset with me.
I have a thought.
I think this run of sutures
will hold it to the annulus,
but I'm worried about leaks.
We can put a second row of pledgeted
sutures to make sure it's hemostatic.
That is unreal.
[Dr. Lim] It's a work of art.
Now let's get it back in
while we can
still get him off bypass alive.
[flatline]
[Claire] Re-perfusing the heart.
-[EKG beeping]
-[Dr. Lim] We've got a rhythm.
[monitor beeping regularly]
[monitor beeping]
[breathes deeply]
Hey.
There was a complication
during the reconstruction surgery.
A clot,
which caused you to lapse into a coma.
We performed
a second surgery on your brain,
which was successful.
Um…
You're gonna be fine.
But my breasts…
The clot occurred
after we finished inserting the implants.
I think you're gonna
be very pleased with the results.
Thank you.
Yep.
I… think I'm sorry.
Dr. Guerin said I should never say
anything that might sound negative
to a girlfriend.
And Dr. Glassman said total honesty
is a high-risk procedure
with a girlfriend.
It's better to show my love
than try to explain it.
But I want to be totally honest with you.
[sighs softly]
I don't like your body
because it's excellent.
I like it because it's yours.
And I love hearing you talk.
When I hear your voice,
especially when I've had a difficult day,
I find it comforting.
Now I want to hug you. Can I?
I'd like that.
I love you.
Thank you.
For your total honesty.
[sighs]
[monitor beeping]
[Dr. Reznick] Your surgery went well.
With some time in rehab,
you should be back to work in a month.
Thank you.
Don't thank me. Thank your surgeon.
She did all the important stuff.
Lim's golden boy is in.
Nothing we can do about that.
So that leaves three openings.
The thought of working
with Will Hooper for the next two years…
If Dr. Lim thinks
he'll be a good resident,
I'm sure she has good reasons.
She probably thinks
arrogance is helpful to a surgeon.
Well, we could try
to change her mind.
Eh, she asked us
to evaluate the applicants, not her.
She asked us to be totally honest.
Eh, "totally honest" is a relative term
when you're telling your boss
she's totally wrong.
So, Hooper's in. Who else?
Dr. Andrews likes Dr. Jordan Allen.
Oh, I do, too. She's confident, driven.
She won't take a lot of hand-holding,
and keeping Andrews happy
keeps us happy.
That leaves two more. Who's next?
Asher Wolke is very up-front
about who he is.
-I like that.
-He's definitely eager.
And he couldn't be
more open to learning.
Agree.
That leaves one more.
[both] John Lundberg.
Smart, professional, mature.
He's a no-brainer.
Lundberg's in.
Lundberg's out.
He stopped by my office before he left.
Said he's no longer interested.
He said you all were unprofessional.
Drinking at work.
Asking inappropriate questions.
Dating drama.
Mm-hmm.
So, who's your alt?
Olivia Jackson or Boardshorts?
Olivia knows her stuff,
but she's a bit insecure.
Her answers sound like questions.
I like Boardshorts. He's sensitive.
Like a woman.
I vote for both of them.
That's not an option.
We don't have the budget.
[sighs]
Hooper is the worst.
The person I said was the best?
He is arrogant and obnoxious.
If he works here, we'll hate him,
the work will suffer,
and we'll either kill patients
or we'll kill him.
And there is no way that you don't
see that, which makes me think…
You do.
This was a test.
You just wanted to see
if we'd be totally honest.
-Well done.
-[chuckles]
Hooper is definitely the worst.
I only let him shadow
as a favor to a board member.
I figured I'd give him a second chance
after his obnoxious interview.
And also do a little experiment.
[laughs]
So…
It's Jordan, Asher,
Olivia, and Enrique.
To the next phase
of your surgical training.
You helped pick them.
As senior residents,
it's now your job to help train them.
And don't take this
responsibility lightly,
because if you don't train them well,
people will die.
[closing theme music playing]